chart/k8gb/README.md, before:

# k8gb

![Version: v0.10.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-v0.10.0-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: v0.10.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-v0.10.0-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for Kubernetes Global Balancer

```
      _    ___        _
     | | _( _ )  __ _| |__
     | |/ / _ \ / _` | '_ \
     |   < (_) | (_| | |_) |
     |_|\_\___/ \__, |_.__/ .io
                |___/
```

**Homepage:** <https://www.k8gb.io/>

## Maintainers

| Name | Email | Url |
| ---- | ------ | --- |
| Dinar Valeev | dinar.valeev@absa.africa |  |
| Jiri Kremser | jiri.kremser@gmail.com |  |
| Michal Kuritka | kuritka@gmail.com |  |
| Timofey Ilinykh | timofey.ilinykh@absa.africa |  |
| Yury Tsarev | yury.tsarev@absa.africa |  |

## Source Code

* <https://github.com/k8gb-io/k8gb>

## Requirements

Kubernetes: `>= 1.19.0-0`

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| https://absaoss.github.io/coredns-helm | coredns | 1.15.3 |

For Kubernetes `< 1.19` use this chart and k8gb in version `0.8.8` or lower.

#### Compatibility matrix:

| k8gb                           |      <= 0.8.x      | >= 0.9.0           |
| ------------------------------ | :----------------: | :----------------: |
| Kubernetes <= 1.18             | :white_check_mark: |        :x:         |
| Kubernetes >= 1.19 and <= 1.21 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| Kubernetes >= 1.22             |        :x:         | :white_check_mark: |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| coredns.deployment.skipConfig | bool | `true` | Skip CoreDNS creation and uses the one shipped by k8gb instead |
| coredns.image.repository | string | `"absaoss/k8s_crd"` | CoreDNS CRD plugin image |
| coredns.image.tag | string | `"v0.0.8"` | image tag |
| coredns.isClusterService | bool | `false` | service: refer to https://www.k8gb.io/docs/service_upgrade.html for upgrading CoreDNS service steps |
| coredns.serviceAccount | object | `{"create":true,"name":"coredns"}` | Creates serviceAccount for coredns |
| externaldns.image | string | `"k8s.gcr.io/external-dns/external-dns:v0.9.0"` | external-dns image repo:tag |
| externaldns.interval | string | `"20s"` | external-dns sync interval |
| externaldns.securityContext.fsGroup | int | `65534` | For ExternalDNS to be able to read Kubernetes and AWS token files |
| externaldns.securityContext.runAsNonRoot | bool | `true` |  |
| externaldns.securityContext.runAsUser | int | `1000` | For more options consult https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#securitycontext-v1-core |
| global.imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` | Reference to one or more secrets to be used when pulling images  ref: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/ |
| infoblox.enabled | bool | `false` | infoblox provider enabled |
| infoblox.gridHost | string | `"10.0.0.1"` | WAPI address |
| infoblox.httpPoolConnections | int | `10` | Size of connections pool |
| infoblox.httpRequestTimeout | int | `20` | Request Timeout in secconds |
| infoblox.sslVerify | bool | `true` | use SSL |
| infoblox.wapiPort | int | `443` | WAPI port |
| infoblox.wapiVersion | string | `"2.3.1"` | WAPI version |
| k8gb.clusterGeoTag | string | `"eu"` | used for places where we need to distinguish between different Gslb instances |
| k8gb.deployCrds | bool | `true` | whether it should also deploy the gslb and dnsendpoints CRDs |
| k8gb.deployRbac | bool | `true` | whether it should also deploy the service account, cluster role and cluster role binding |
| k8gb.dnsZone | string | `"cloud.example.com"` | dnsZone controlled by gslb |
| k8gb.dnsZoneNegTTL | int | `300` | Negative TTL for SOA record |
| k8gb.edgeDNSServers | list | `["1.1.1.1"]` | host/ip[:port] format is supported here where port defaults to 53 |
| k8gb.edgeDNSServers[0] | string | `"1.1.1.1"` | use this DNS server as a main resolver to enable cross k8gb DNS based communication |
| k8gb.edgeDNSZone | string | `"example.com"` | main zone which would contain gslb zone to delegate |
| k8gb.extGslbClustersGeoTags | string | `"us"` | comma-separated list of external gslb geo tags to pair with |
| k8gb.imageRepo | string | `"docker.io/absaoss/k8gb"` | image repository |
| k8gb.imageTag |  string  | `nil` | image tag defaults to Chart.AppVersion, see Chart.yaml, but can be overrided with imageTag key |
| k8gb.log.format | string | `"simple"` | log format (simple,json) |
| k8gb.log.level | string | `"info"` | log level (panic,fatal,error,warn,info,debug,trace) |
| k8gb.metricsAddress | string | `"0.0.0.0:8080"` | Metrics server address |
| k8gb.reconcileRequeueSeconds | int | `30` | Reconcile time in seconds |
| k8gb.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation | bool | `false` |  |
| k8gb.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem | bool | `true` |  |
| k8gb.securityContext.runAsNonRoot | bool | `true` | For more options consult https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#securitycontext-v1-core |
| k8gb.securityContext.runAsUser | int | `1000` |  |
| k8gb.splitBrainCheck | bool | `false` | Enable SplitBrain check (Infoblox only) |
| ns1.enabled | bool | `false` | Enable NS1 provider |
| ns1.ignoreSSL | bool | `false` | optional custom NS1 API endpoint for on-prem setups endpoint: https://api.nsone.net/v1/ |
| openshift.enabled | bool | `false` | Install OpenShift specific RBAC |
| rfc2136.enabled | bool | `false` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136Opts[0].host | string | `"host.k3d.internal"` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136Opts[1].port | int | `1053` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136Opts[2].tsig-secret-alg | string | `"hmac-sha256"` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136Opts[3].tsig-keyname | string | `"externaldns-key"` |  |
| route53.enabled | bool | `false` | Enable Route53 provider |
| route53.hostedZoneID | string | `"ZXXXSSS"` | Route53 ZoneID |
| route53.irsaRole | string | `"arn:aws:iam::111111:role/external-dns"` | specify IRSA Role in AWS ARN format or disable it by setting to `false` |
| tracing.deployJaeger | bool | `false` | should the Jaeger be deployed together with the k8gb operator? In case of using another OpenTracing solution, make sure that configmap for OTEL agent has the correct exporters set up (`tracing.otelConfig`). |
| tracing.enabled | bool | `false` | if the application should be sending the traces to OTLP collector (env var `TRACING_ENABLED`) |
| tracing.endpoint | string | `"localhost:4318"` | `host:port` where the spans from the applications (traces) should be sent, sets the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` env var This is not the final destination where all the traces are going. Otel collector has its configuration in the associated configmap (`tracing.otelConfig`). |
| tracing.jaegerImage.pullPolicy | string | `"Always"` |  |
| tracing.jaegerImage.repository | string | `"jaegertracing/all-in-one"` | if `tracing.deployJaeger==true` this image will be used in the deployment for Jaeger |
| tracing.jaegerImage.tag | string | `"1.37.0"` |  |
| tracing.otelConfig | string | `nil` | configuration for OTEL collector, this will be represented as configmap called `agent-config` |
| tracing.samplingRatio | string | `nil` | float representing the ratio of how often the span should be kept/dropped (env var `TRACING_SAMPLING_RATIO`) if not specified, the AlwaysSample will be used which is the same as 1.0. `0.1` would mean that 10% of samples will be kept |
| tracing.sidecarImage.pullPolicy | string | `"Always"` |  |
| tracing.sidecarImage.repository | string | `"otel/opentelemetry-collector"` | OpenTelemetry collector into which the k8gb operator sends the spans. It can be further configured to send its data to somewhere else using exporters (Jaeger for instance) |
| tracing.sidecarImage.tag | string | `"0.57.2"` |  |

Commit message:

Updated ExternalDNS template in order to allow the configuration of the ConfigMap with a krb5.conf configuration for Kerberos authentication (GSS-TSIG). Also updated the values.schema.json and values.yaml for this new input. README.md was updated with the correct description of the values.yaml structure with the new inputs for the rfc2136 provider configuration
Signed-off-by: vestevesaws@gmail.com <x191116@MBP-de-Vitor.home>
Signed-off-by: vestevesaws@gmail.com <x191116@MacBook-Pro-de-Vitor.local>

chart/k8gb/README.md, after:

# k8gb

![Version: v0.10.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-v0.10.0-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: v0.10.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-v0.10.0-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for Kubernetes Global Balancer

```
      _    ___        _
     | | _( _ )  __ _| |__
     | |/ / _ \ / _` | '_ \
     |   < (_) | (_| | |_) |
     |_|\_\___/ \__, |_.__/ .io
                |___/
```

**Homepage:** <https://www.k8gb.io/>

## Maintainers

| Name | Email | Url |
| ---- | ------ | --- |
| Dinar Valeev | dinar.valeev@absa.africa |  |
| Jiri Kremser | jiri.kremser@gmail.com |  |
| Michal Kuritka | kuritka@gmail.com |  |
| Timofey Ilinykh | timofey.ilinykh@absa.africa |  |
| Yury Tsarev | yury.tsarev@absa.africa |  |

## Source Code

* <https://github.com/k8gb-io/k8gb>

## Requirements

Kubernetes: `>= 1.19.0-0`

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| https://absaoss.github.io/coredns-helm | coredns | 1.15.3 |

For Kubernetes `< 1.19` use this chart and k8gb in version `0.8.8` or lower.

#### Compatibility matrix:

| k8gb                           |      <= 0.8.x      | >= 0.9.0           |
| ------------------------------ | :----------------: | :----------------: |
| Kubernetes <= 1.18             | :white_check_mark: |        :x:         |
| Kubernetes >= 1.19 and <= 1.21 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| Kubernetes >= 1.22             |        :x:         | :white_check_mark: |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| coredns.deployment.skipConfig | bool | `true` | Skip CoreDNS creation and uses the one shipped by k8gb instead |
| coredns.image.repository | string | `"absaoss/k8s_crd"` | CoreDNS CRD plugin image |
| coredns.image.tag | string | `"v0.0.8"` | image tag |
| coredns.isClusterService | bool | `false` | service: refer to https://www.k8gb.io/docs/service_upgrade.html for upgrading CoreDNS service steps |
| coredns.serviceAccount | object | `{"create":true,"name":"coredns"}` | Creates serviceAccount for coredns |
| externaldns.image | string | `"k8s.gcr.io/external-dns/external-dns:v0.9.0"` | external-dns image repo:tag |
| externaldns.interval | string | `"20s"` | external-dns sync interval |
| externaldns.securityContext.fsGroup | int | `65534` | For ExternalDNS to be able to read Kubernetes and AWS token files |
| externaldns.securityContext.runAsNonRoot | bool | `true` |  |
| externaldns.securityContext.runAsUser | int | `1000` | For more options consult https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#securitycontext-v1-core |
| global.imagePullSecrets | list | `[]` | Reference to one or more secrets to be used when pulling images  ref: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/ |
| infoblox.enabled | bool | `false` | infoblox provider enabled |
| infoblox.gridHost | string | `"10.0.0.1"` | WAPI address |
| infoblox.httpPoolConnections | int | `10` | Size of connections pool |
| infoblox.httpRequestTimeout | int | `20` | Request Timeout in secconds |
| infoblox.sslVerify | bool | `true` | use SSL |
| infoblox.wapiPort | int | `443` | WAPI port |
| infoblox.wapiVersion | string | `"2.3.1"` | WAPI version |
| k8gb.clusterGeoTag | string | `"eu"` | used for places where we need to distinguish between different Gslb instances |
| k8gb.deployCrds | bool | `true` | whether it should also deploy the gslb and dnsendpoints CRDs |
| k8gb.deployRbac | bool | `true` | whether it should also deploy the service account, cluster role and cluster role binding |
| k8gb.dnsZone | string | `"cloud.example.com"` | dnsZone controlled by gslb |
| k8gb.dnsZoneNegTTL | int | `300` | Negative TTL for SOA record |
| k8gb.edgeDNSServers | list | `["1.1.1.1"]` | host/ip[:port] format is supported here where port defaults to 53 |
| k8gb.edgeDNSServers[0] | string | `"1.1.1.1"` | use this DNS server as a main resolver to enable cross k8gb DNS based communication |
| k8gb.edgeDNSZone | string | `"example.com"` | main zone which would contain gslb zone to delegate |
| k8gb.extGslbClustersGeoTags | string | `"us"` | comma-separated list of external gslb geo tags to pair with |
| k8gb.imageRepo | string | `"docker.io/absaoss/k8gb"` | image repository |
| k8gb.imageTag |  string  | `nil` | image tag defaults to Chart.AppVersion, see Chart.yaml, but can be overrided with imageTag key |
| k8gb.log.format | string | `"simple"` | log format (simple,json) |
| k8gb.log.level | string | `"info"` | log level (panic,fatal,error,warn,info,debug,trace) |
| k8gb.metricsAddress | string | `"0.0.0.0:8080"` | Metrics server address |
| k8gb.reconcileRequeueSeconds | int | `30` | Reconcile time in seconds |
| k8gb.securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation | bool | `false` |  |
| k8gb.securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem | bool | `true` |  |
| k8gb.securityContext.runAsNonRoot | bool | `true` | For more options consult https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.25/#securitycontext-v1-core |
| k8gb.securityContext.runAsUser | int | `1000` |  |
| k8gb.splitBrainCheck | bool | `false` | Enable SplitBrain check (Infoblox only) |
| ns1.enabled | bool | `false` | Enable NS1 provider |
| ns1.ignoreSSL | bool | `false` | optional custom NS1 API endpoint for on-prem setups endpoint: https://api.nsone.net/v1/ |
| openshift.enabled | bool | `false` | Install OpenShift specific RBAC |
| rfc2136.enabled | bool | `false` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136Opts[0].host | string | `"host.k3d.internal"` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136Opts[1].port | int | `1053` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.insecure.enabled | bool | `false` | Set to True if insecure updates to the DNS provided can be executed by ExternalDNS |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.tsig.enabled | bool | `false` | Set to True if the DNS server uses TSIG authentication for DNS updates by ExternalDNS |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.tsig.tsigCreds[0].tsig-secret-alg | string | `"hmac-sha256"` | Algorithm used to generate the token for TSIG |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.tsig.tsigCreds[1].tsig-keyname | string | `"externaldns-key"` |  |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.gssTsig.enabled | bool | `false` | Set to True if the DNS server uses GSS-TSIG (Kerberos) authentication for DNS updates by ExternalDNS |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.gssTsig.kerberosConfigMap | string | `"kerberos-configmap"` | When using GSS-TSIG, a ConfigMap with a valid krb5.conf configuration should be provided |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.gssTsig.gssTsigCreds[0].kerberos-username | string | `"ad-user-account"` | AD user account with permissions for DNS updates |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.gssTsig.gssTsigCreds[1].kerberos-password | string | `"ad-user-account-password"` | Passowrd of the AD user account |
| rfc2136.rfc2136auth.gssTsig.gssTsigCreds[2].kerberos-realm | string | `"REALM.DOMAIN"` | Kerberos REALM that should be used for authentication |
| route53.enabled | bool | `false` | Enable Route53 provider |
| route53.hostedZoneID | string | `"ZXXXSSS"` | Route53 ZoneID |
| route53.irsaRole | string | `"arn:aws:iam::111111:role/external-dns"` | specify IRSA Role in AWS ARN format or disable it by setting to `false` |
| tracing.deployJaeger | bool | `false` | should the Jaeger be deployed together with the k8gb operator? In case of using another OpenTracing solution, make sure that configmap for OTEL agent has the correct exporters set up (`tracing.otelConfig`). |
| tracing.enabled | bool | `false` | if the application should be sending the traces to OTLP collector (env var `TRACING_ENABLED`) |
| tracing.endpoint | string | `"localhost:4318"` | `host:port` where the spans from the applications (traces) should be sent, sets the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` env var This is not the final destination where all the traces are going. Otel collector has its configuration in the associated configmap (`tracing.otelConfig`). |
| tracing.jaegerImage.pullPolicy | string | `"Always"` |  |
| tracing.jaegerImage.repository | string | `"jaegertracing/all-in-one"` | if `tracing.deployJaeger==true` this image will be used in the deployment for Jaeger |
| tracing.jaegerImage.tag | string | `"1.37.0"` |  |
| tracing.otelConfig | string | `nil` | configuration for OTEL collector, this will be represented as configmap called `agent-config` |
| tracing.samplingRatio | string | `nil` | float representing the ratio of how often the span should be kept/dropped (env var `TRACING_SAMPLING_RATIO`) if not specified, the AlwaysSample will be used which is the same as 1.0. `0.1` would mean that 10% of samples will be kept |
| tracing.sidecarImage.pullPolicy | string | `"Always"` |  |
| tracing.sidecarImage.repository | string | `"otel/opentelemetry-collector"` | OpenTelemetry collector into which the k8gb operator sends the spans. It can be further configured to send its data to somewhere else using exporters (Jaeger for instance) |
| tracing.sidecarImage.tag | string | `"0.57.2"` |  |
