GOVERNANCE.md, before:

# k8gb Governance

This document defines governance policies for k8gb project.

## Principles

The k8gb project community adheres to the following principles:

- Open: k8gb is open source.
- Welcoming and inclusive: See our [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- Transparent and accessible: Any changes to k8gs source code and collaborations on the project are publicly accessible (GitHub issues, PRs, and discussions).
- Merit: Ideas and contributions are accepted according to their technical merit and alignment with project objectives, scope, and design principles.


## Code of Conduct

k8gb follows [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), which is aligned with the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).

## Contributors

Anyone can contribute to the project. More about contribution rules and technical aspects can be found in the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.
## Maintainers

Maintainers are defined in the [CODEOWNERS](CODEOWNERS) file by their GitHub user handles.
New maintainers are nominated by existing maintainers and are elected by a supermajority of votes of existing maintainers.
If the maintainer is no longer be able to perform the maintainer duties, they should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status.
Maintainers can be also removed from active maintainers list by a supermajority of votes of existing maintainers.

Below is the list of maintainer's general responsibilities in additions to those defined for project contributors:

- Triages GitHub issues
- Reviews pull requests
- Runs k8gb releases
- Forms k8gb architecture, strategy and roadmap
- Actively supports k8gb community in related channels
- Represents k8bg project in public media (events, slack channels, etc)
- Is involved in CNCF-related activities and projects
- Ensures CNCF guidelines compliancy
- Owns project infrastructure

## Project Lead

Project Lead is a project maintainer with the final vote on project decisions

## Conflict Resolutions

In most cases, it is expected that conflicts are amicably resolved by involved parties.
In case of escalation, conflicts are resolved by voting, with the ruling of a supermajority of votes of project maintainers. The project lead has the final vote on the ruling.

## Changes

Project Governance is a living document.
All key project changes including changes in project governance can be proposed by a GitHub PR and then reviewed and voted for by project maintainers.

## Credits

Sections of this document have been borrowed from [CoreDNS](https://github.com/coredns/coredns/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md), [fluentd](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md) and [Crossplane](https://github.com/crossplane/crossplane/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md) projects.

Commit message:

Documentation: update GOVERNANCE for incubation application - vendor neutrality
Documentation: update GOVERNANCE for incubation application - vendor neutrality

* add assertion that k8gb is vendor-neutral
* various minor grammar fixes

Fixes #1746

Signed-off-by: Bradley Andersen <bradley.andersen@pm.me>

GOVERNANCE.md, after:

# k8gb Governance

This document defines governance policies for the k8gb project.

## Principles

The k8gb project community adheres to the following principles:

- Open: k8gb is open source.
- Welcoming and inclusive: See our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- Transparent and accessible: Any changes to k8gb's source code and collaborations on the project are publicly accessible (GitHub issues, PRs, and discussions).
- Merit: Ideas and contributions are accepted according to their technical merit and alignment with project objectives, scope, and design principles.
- Vendor-neutral: k8gb is vendor-neutral as defined by [What it Means to be a Vendor Neutral Project in the CNCF](https://contribute.cncf.io/maintainers/community/vendor-neutrality/).

## Code of Conduct

k8gb follows a [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md), which is aligned with the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).

## Contributors

Anyone can contribute to the k8gb project. More about contribution rules and technical aspects can be found in the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.

## Maintainers

Maintainers are defined in the [CODEOWNERS](CODEOWNERS) file by their GitHub user handles.
New maintainers are nominated by existing maintainers and are elected by a supermajority of votes of existing maintainers.
If a maintainer is no longer able to perform their duties, they should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status.
Maintainers can be also removed from the active maintainers list by a supermajority of votes of existing maintainers.

Below is the list of a maintainer's general responsibilities in addition to those defined for project contributors:

- Triages GitHub issues
- Reviews pull requests
- Runs k8gb releases
- Forms k8gb architecture, strategy and roadmap
- Actively supports the k8gb community in related channels
- Represents the k8gb project in public media (events, slack channels, etc.)
- Is involved in CNCF-related activities and projects
- Ensures compliance with CNCF guidelines
- Owns project infrastructure

## Project Lead

The Project Lead is a project maintainer with the final vote on project decisions.

## Conflict Resolutions

In most cases, it is expected that conflicts are amicably resolved by involved parties.
In cases of escalation, conflicts are resolved by voting, with the ruling of a supermajority of votes of project maintainers. The project lead has the final vote on the ruling.

## Changes

Project Governance is a living document.
All key project changes including changes in project governance can be proposed by a GitHub PR and then reviewed and voted on by project maintainers.

## Credits

Sections of this document have been borrowed from [CoreDNS](https://github.com/coredns/coredns/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md), [fluentd](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md) and [Crossplane](https://github.com/crossplane/crossplane/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md) projects.
