docs/local.md, before:

<!-- omit in toc -->
# Local playground for testing and development

- [Environment prerequisites](#environment-prerequisites)
- [Running project locally](#running-project-locally)
- [Verify installation](#verify-installation)
- [Run integration tests](#run-integration-tests)
- [Cleaning](#cleaning)
- [Sample demo](#sample-demo)
  - [Round Robin](#round-robin)
  - [Failover](#failover)

## Environment prerequisites

- [Install **go 1.16**](https://golang.org/dl/)

- [Install **git**](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- Install **gnu-sed** if you don't have it. If you are on a Mac, install sed by Homebrew
    ```shell script
    brew install gnu-sed
    ```

- [Install **Docker**](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
  > Ensure you are able to push/pull from your docker registry

  > To run multiple clusters, reserve 8GB of memory*
    ![](/docs/images/docker_settings.png)
      <div>
        <sup><i>* above screenshot is provided for <strong>Docker for Mac</strong>, options for other Docker distributions may vary
        </i></sup>
      </div>

 - [install **kubectl**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) to operate clusters

 - [install **helm3**](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get charts

 - [install **k3d**](https://k3d.io/) as tool for running local [k3s](https://k3s.io/) clusters.<br>
   > Follow https://k3d.io/#installation


## Running project locally

To spin-up a local environment using two k3s clusters and deploy a test application to both clusters, execute the command below:
```shell script
make deploy-full-local-setup
```

## Verify installation

If local setup runs well, check if clusters are correctly installed

```shell script
kubectl cluster-info --context k3d-test-gslb1 && kubectl cluster-info --context k3d-test-gslb2
```

Cluster [test-gslb1](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/kind/cluster.yaml) is exposing external DNS on default port `:5053`
while [test-gslb2](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/kind/cluster2.yaml) on port `:5054`.
```shell script
dig @localhost localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com -p 5053 && dig -p 5054 @localhost localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com
```
As expected result you should see **eight A records** divided between nodes of both clusters.
```shell script
...
...
;; ANSWER SECTION:
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.3
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.4
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.2
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.5
...
...
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.8
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.6
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.7
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.9
```
Both clusters have [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) installed on the top.
Run following command and check if you get two json responses.
```shell script
curl localhost:80 -H "Host:roundrobin.cloud.example.com" && curl localhost:81 -H "Host:roundrobin.cloud.example.com"
```

## Run integration tests

There is wide range of scenarios which **GSLB** provides and all of them are covered within [tests](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/terratest).
To check whether everything is running properly execute [terratest](https://terratest.gruntwork.io/) :

```shell script
make terratest
```

## Cleaning

Clean up your local development clusters with
```shell script
make destroy-full-local-setup
```

## Sample demo

### Round Robin

Both clusters have [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) installed on the top, where each
cluster has been tagged to serve a different region. In this demo we will hit podinfo by `wget -qO - roundrobin.cloud.example.com` and depending
on region will podinfo return **us** or **eu**. In current round robin implementation are IP addresses randomly picked.
See [Gslb manifest with round robin strategy](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/crds/k8gb.absa.oss_v1beta1_gslb_cr.yaml)

Run several times command below and watch `message` field.
```shell script
make test-round-robin
```
As expected result you should see podinfo message changing

```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-8p45m",
  ...
  "message": "us",
  ...
}
```
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-8p45m",
  ...
  "message": "eu",
  ...
}
```

### Failover

Both clusters have [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) installed on the top where each
cluster has been tagged to serve a different region. In this demo we will hit podinfo by `wget -qO - failover.cloud.example.com` and depending
on whether podinfo is running inside the cluster it returns only **eu** or **us**.
See [Gslb manifest with failover strategy](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/crds/k8gb.absa.oss_v1beta1_gslb_cr_failover.yaml)

Switch GLSB to failover mode:
```shell script
make init-failover
```
Now both clusters are running in failover mode and podinfo is running on both of them.
Run several times command below and watch `message` field.
```shell script
make test-failover
```
You will see only **eu** podinfo is responsive:
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-8p45m",
  ...
  "message": "eu",
  ...
}
```
Stop podinfo on **current (eu)** cluster:
```
make stop-test-app
```
Several times hit application again
```shell script
make test-failover
```
As expected result you should see only podinfo from **second cluster (us)** is responding:
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-v5nll",
  ...
  "message": "us",
  ...
}
```
It might happen that podinfo will be unavailable for a while due to
[DNS sync interval](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/pull/81) and default k8gb DNS TTL of 30 seconds
```text
wget: server returned error: HTTP/1.1 503 Service Temporarily Unavailable
```
Start podinfo again on **current (eu)** cluster:
```shell script
make start-test-app
```
and hit several times hit podinfo:
```shell script
make test-failover
```
After DNS sync interval is over **eu** will be back
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-6945c9ddd7-xksrc",
  ...
  "message": "eu",
  ...
}
```
Optionally you can switch GLSB back to round-robin mode
```shell script
make init-round-robin
```

Commit message:

Added golangci-lint as pre-requisite to local setup doc (#407)
* Added golangci-lint as pre-requisite to local setup doc
* Kept reference to `.golangci.yaml` configuration for list of linters

Co-authored-by: Yury Tsarev <xnull@opensuse.org>

docs/local.md, after:

<!-- omit in toc -->
# Local playground for testing and development

- [Environment prerequisites](#environment-prerequisites)
- [Running project locally](#running-project-locally)
- [Verify installation](#verify-installation)
- [Run integration tests](#run-integration-tests)
- [Cleaning](#cleaning)
- [Sample demo](#sample-demo)
  - [Round Robin](#round-robin)
  - [Failover](#failover)

## Environment prerequisites

- [Install **Go 1.16**](https://golang.org/dl/)

- [Install **Git**](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- Install **gnu-sed** if you don't have it. If you are on a Mac, install `gnu-sed` with Homebrew
    ```shell script
    brew install gnu-sed
    ```

- [Install **Docker**](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
  > Ensure you are able to push/pull from your docker registry

  > To run multiple clusters, reserve 8GB of memory*
    ![](/docs/images/docker_settings.png)
      <div>
        <sup><i>* above screenshot is provided for <strong>Docker for Mac</strong>, options for other Docker distributions may vary
        </i></sup>
      </div>

 - [install **kubectl**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) to operate k8s clusters

 - [install **helm3**](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to deploy k8gb and related test workloads

 - [install **k3d**](https://k3d.io/#installation) to run local [k3s](https://k3s.io/) clusters

 - [install **golangci-lint**](https://golangci-lint.run/usage/install/#local-installation) for code quality checks


## Running project locally

To spin-up a local environment using two k3s clusters and deploy a test application to both clusters, execute the command below:
```shell script
make deploy-full-local-setup
```

## Verify installation

If local setup runs well, check if clusters are correctly installed

```shell script
kubectl cluster-info --context k3d-test-gslb1 && kubectl cluster-info --context k3d-test-gslb2
```

Cluster [test-gslb1](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/kind/cluster.yaml) is exposing external DNS on default port `:5053`
while [test-gslb2](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/kind/cluster2.yaml) on port `:5054`.
```shell script
dig @localhost localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com -p 5053 && dig -p 5054 @localhost localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com
```
As expected result you should see **eight A records** divided between nodes of both clusters.
```shell script
...
...
;; ANSWER SECTION:
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.3
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.4
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.2
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.5
...
...
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.8
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.6
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.7
localtargets-roundrobin.cloud.example.com. 30 IN A    172.16.0.9
```
Both clusters have [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) installed on the top.
Run following command and check if you get two json responses.
```shell script
curl localhost:80 -H "Host:roundrobin.cloud.example.com" && curl localhost:81 -H "Host:roundrobin.cloud.example.com"
```

## Run integration tests

There is wide range of scenarios which **GSLB** provides and all of them are covered within [tests](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/terratest).
To check whether everything is running properly execute [terratest](https://terratest.gruntwork.io/) :

```shell script
make terratest
```

## Cleaning

Clean up your local development clusters with
```shell script
make destroy-full-local-setup
```

## Sample demo

### Round Robin

Both clusters have [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) installed on the top, where each
cluster has been tagged to serve a different region. In this demo we will hit podinfo by `wget -qO - roundrobin.cloud.example.com` and depending
on region will podinfo return **us** or **eu**. In current round robin implementation are IP addresses randomly picked.
See [Gslb manifest with round robin strategy](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/crds/k8gb.absa.oss_v1beta1_gslb_cr.yaml)

Run several times command below and watch `message` field.
```shell script
make test-round-robin
```
As expected result you should see podinfo message changing

```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-8p45m",
  ...
  "message": "us",
  ...
}
```
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-8p45m",
  ...
  "message": "eu",
  ...
}
```

### Failover

Both clusters have [podinfo](https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo) installed on the top where each
cluster has been tagged to serve a different region. In this demo we will hit podinfo by `wget -qO - failover.cloud.example.com` and depending
on whether podinfo is running inside the cluster it returns only **eu** or **us**.
See [Gslb manifest with failover strategy](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/tree/master/deploy/crds/k8gb.absa.oss_v1beta1_gslb_cr_failover.yaml)

Switch GLSB to failover mode:
```shell script
make init-failover
```
Now both clusters are running in failover mode and podinfo is running on both of them.
Run several times command below and watch `message` field.
```shell script
make test-failover
```
You will see only **eu** podinfo is responsive:
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-8p45m",
  ...
  "message": "eu",
  ...
}
```
Stop podinfo on **current (eu)** cluster:
```
make stop-test-app
```
Several times hit application again
```shell script
make test-failover
```
As expected result you should see only podinfo from **second cluster (us)** is responding:
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-856bb46677-v5nll",
  ...
  "message": "us",
  ...
}
```
It might happen that podinfo will be unavailable for a while due to
[DNS sync interval](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k8gb/pull/81) and default k8gb DNS TTL of 30 seconds
```text
wget: server returned error: HTTP/1.1 503 Service Temporarily Unavailable
```
Start podinfo again on **current (eu)** cluster:
```shell script
make start-test-app
```
and hit several times hit podinfo:
```shell script
make test-failover
```
After DNS sync interval is over **eu** will be back
```text
{
  "hostname": "frontend-podinfo-6945c9ddd7-xksrc",
  ...
  "message": "eu",
  ...
}
```
Optionally you can switch GLSB back to round-robin mode
```shell script
make init-round-robin
```
